Adding McAgar documentation for using the BDD tests (#6540)
tinymce/tinymce: modules/mcagar/docs/bdd.md

# BDD testing

> The following are the primary modules used when testing TinyMCE using the behaviour driven development tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following are the primary modules used when testing TinyMCE using the behavior-driven development tests.
```

## TinyHooks

The `TinyHooks` module registers `before` and `after` hooks to set up TinyMCE in a test. It takes the TinyMCE settings and will then initialize the editor during the test suite setup phase. Additional module setup functions (such as a plugin constructor) can also be provided and will be called before the editor is initialized. The editor instance can be accessed by calling the `editor()` function on the object returned by the hook function.

> 💡 **Note:** The editor is only initialized once per suite instead of per test, so be sure to close open dialogs, or reset any state after each test.

Available functions:
- `bddSetup(settings: RawEditorSettings, setupModules?: Array<() => void>, focusOnInit?: boolean)`
  - Sets up the editor using the settings provided. This is the most common way to setup and test TinyMCE.

> - `bddSetupLight(settings: RawEditorSettings, setupModules?: Array<() => void>, focusOnInit?: boolean)`

Reviewer: Do we want to encourage `bddSetupLight` as the primary method? If so I wonder if it should be first in the list

Author: We don't particularly care what others do and it varies based on the use case. So as long as we highlight the difference/benefit, then I don't think the order matters and it should be left up to whoever is using it as to which suits best.

>   - Similar to `bddSetup`, except that by default the editor `menubar`, `toolbar` and `statusbar` will be disabled. This helps to speed up tests where the UI isn't required since there's less to be rendered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Similar to `bddSetup`, except that by default the editor `menubar`, `toolbar` and `statusbar` will not be rendered. This helps to speed up tests where the UI isn't required.
```

Author: Disagree with this one sorry, I specifically want to say disabled as that's what the docs mention for those settings.

> - `bddSetupFromElement(settings: RawEditorSettings, setupElement: () => SetupElement, setupModules?: Array<() => void>, focusOnInit?: boolean)`

Author: Linking it isn't going to really work since it's in a code block. I definitely don't want to replicate it, as it'll likely become out of sync. Honestly, I don't think it's an issue looking at the actual type, as you already need to do that for things like `RawEditorSettings`.

> - `bddSetupFromElement(settings: RawEditorSettings, setupElement: () => SetupElement, setupModules?: Array<() => void>, focusOnInit?: boolean)`

Author: I should add the key point of the docs is to show what's available and where it might be best used.

  - Provides a way to setup an editor using a custom element. A callback function is required which should setup the element to use and then return a function to teardown the element when the tests have completed.
- `bddSetupInShadowRoot(settings: RawEditorSettings, setupModules?: Array<() => void>, focusOnInit?: boolean)`
  - Sets up the editor within a shadow root using the settings provided. An additional `shadowRoot` lookup function is provided in the hook return object.

### Example: Using TinyHooks to test a custom plugin

```js
import { TinyHooks } from '@ephox/mcagar';
import { Editor } from 'tinymce';

import { Plugin } from '../../main/ts/Plugin';

describe('My Custom Plugin', () => {
  const hook = TinyHooks.bddSetup<Editor>({
    plugins: 'customplugin',
    toolbar: 'custom',
    customplugin_setting: true
  }, [ Plugin ]);

  it('should include a custom toolbar button', () => {
    const editor = hook.editor();

>     // Assert the editor has a custom toolbat button rendered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Assert the editor has a custom toolbar button rendered
```

  - Simulates a `keypress` keyboard event against the focused element in the content of the editor.
- `keystroke(editor: Editor, keyCode: number, modifiers?: Record<string, boolean>)`
  - Simulates `keydown`, `keypress` and then a `keyup` keyboard events against the focused element in the content of the editor.
- `type(editor: Editor, content: string)`
  - Simulates typing the specified `content` one character at a time in the content of the editor.

## TinyUiActions

The `TinyUiActions` module provides helper functions to perform actions against the User Interface (UI) of the editor.

###  Dialog actions

The following functions are available to open or close dialogs:

- `submitDialog(editor: Editor, dialogSelector?: string))`
  - Clicks the `Save` button in the dialog to submit changes.
- `cancelDialog(editor: Editor, dialogSelector?: string)`
  - Clicks the `Cancel` button in the dialog to discard changes.
- `closeDialog(editor: Editor, dialogSelector?: string)`
  - Clicks the `X` button in the dialog to discard changes.
- `pWaitForDialog(editor: Editor, dialogSelector?: string)`
  - Returns a `Promise` that will resolve when a dialog has finished opening.

> ### Keyboard actions

Reviewer: This appears to be duplicated?

Author: As discussed on slack, it's not duplicated. One is for `TinyContentActions` and one is for `TinyUiActions`. If we were using something other than markdown we could reuse parts of it, but unfortunately that can't be done.

The following functions are available to simulate keyboard events in the editor UI:

- `keydown(editor: Editor, keyCode: number, modifiers?: Record<string, boolean>)`
  - Simulates a `keydown` keyboard event against the focused element in the UI of the editor.
- `keyup(editor: Editor, keyCode: number, modifiers?: Record<string, boolean>)`
  - Simulates a `keuyp` keyboard event against the focused element in the UI of the editor.
- `keypress(editor: Editor, keyCode: number, modifiers?: Record<string, boolean>)`
  - Simulates a `keypress` keyboard event against the focused element in the UI of the editor.
- `keystroke(editor: Editor, keyCode: number, modifiers?: Record<string, boolean>)`
  - Simulates `keydown`, `keypress` and then a `keyup` keyboard events against the focused element in the UI of the editor.
- `type(editor: Editor, content: string)`
  - Simulates typing the specified `content` one character at a time in the UI of the editor.

### Other actions

The following functions are available to mouse clicks or wait for changes in the UI:

- `clickOnMenu(editor: Editor, selector: string)`

>   - Clicks on a menu item that matches the specified  selector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Clicks on a menu item that matches the specified selector.
```

- `clickOnToolbar(editor: Editor, selector: string)`

>   - Clicks on a toolbar button that matches the specified  selector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Clicks on a toolbar button that matches the specified selector.
```

- `clickOnUi(editor: Editor, selector: string)`

>   - Clicks on UI element that matches the specified  selector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Clicks on UI element that matches the specified selector.
```

- `select(editor: Editor, selector: string, path: number[])`
  - Select an element inside the editor, such as a `img` element using a selector and element path.

### Example: Setting the selection inside a paragraph

```js
it('should set the selection inside a paragraph', () => {
  const editor = hook.editor();
  editor.setContent('<p>Content</p>');
  TinySelections.setSelection(editor, [ 0 ], 3, [ 0 ], 7); // Selects `tent` in the paragraph
});
```

### Example: Selecting an image

```js
it('should set the selection around an image', () => {
  const editor = hook.editor();
  editor.setContent('<p><img src="..."></p>');
  TinySelections.select(editor, 'img', []);
});
```

## TinyAssertions

The `TinyAssertions` module provides helper functions to assert the state of the editor.

### Content assertions

The following functions are available to assert the editor content:

- `assertContent(editor: Editor, expectedContent: string)`
  - Assert the content of the editor matches the expected content. The content is retrieved using `editor.getContent()`.
- `assertRawContent(editor: Editor, expectedContent: string)`

>   - Assert the raw content of the editor. This is the HTML directly pulled from the editor body using `editor.getBody().innerHTML`.

Reviewer: It might be worth adding a use case for `assertRawContent`, like when testing internal markup?

Author: ```suggestion
  - Assert the raw content of the editor. This is the HTML directly pulled from the editor body using `editor.getBody().innerHTML`. This can be useful to assert content that only appears while editing, such as bogus br elements.
```
